.TH MKTORRENT 1 "April 2024" "MKTorrent 1.4.3" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
mktorrent \- create BitTorrent metainfo files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mktorrent
[\fIOPTIONS\fR] \fIFILE\fR|\fIDIRECTORY\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B mktorrent
is a simple command-line utility to create BitTorrent metainfo files.
It supports both single file and directory torrents, with configurable piece
length and multiple announce URLs.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-a\fR, \fB\-\-announce\fR=\fIURL\fR
Add an announce URL. Can be used multiple times.
.TP
\fB\-c\fR, \fB\-\-comment\fR=\fICOMMENT\fR
Add a comment to the metainfo.
.TP
\fB\-d\fR, \fB\-\-no\-date\fR
Don't write the creation date.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Show help message and exit.
.TP
\fB\-l\fR, \fB\-\-piece\-length\fR=\fILENGTH\fR
Set the piece length. Default is 262144 (256 KiB).
.TP
\fB\-n\fR, \fB\-\-name\fR=\fINAME\fR
Set the name of the torrent. Default is basename of FILE or DIRECTORY.
.TP
\fB\-o\fR, \fB\-\-output\fR=\fIFILE\fR
Set the path of the created .torrent file.
.TP
\fB\-p\fR, \fB\-\-private\fR
Set the private flag.
.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-source\fR=\fISOURCE\fR
Set the source string.
.TP
\fB\-t\fR, \fB\-\-threads\fR=\fINUM\fR
Set the number of threads to use for hashing.
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
Be verbose.
.TP
\fB\-w\fR, \fB\-\-web\-seeds\fR=\fIURL\fR
Add a web seed URL. Can be used multiple times.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Create a torrent for a single file:
.B mktorrent \-a http://tracker.example.com/announce \-o file.torrent file.iso
.TP
Create a torrent for a directory:
.B mktorrent \-a http://tracker.example.com/announce \-o dir.torrent directory/
.TP
Create a private torrent with custom piece length:
.B mktorrent \-a http://tracker.example.com/announce \-p \-l 524288 \-o private.torrent file.iso
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR bittorrent (7),
.BR transmission\-cli (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Thomas Chauveau <contact.tomc@yahoo.fr>
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2024 Thomas Chauveau
.br
This is free software; see the source for copying conditions.  There is NO
warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
